# CarWash

The  purpose  of  this  project  was  to  create  the  necessary  classes  and  methods  to  simulate several different instances of a car wash.  This program’s car wash is modeled after the carwash’s where there is a single order station for handling customer payment, wash type choice,etc., and then multiple bays where the cars are actually washed.  Three classes and one enumwere used to fully represent this simulation.The  CarWashOption  enum  was  used  for  holding  the  different  levels  of  wash  availableto the customer, and their associated price and time required to complete.  The enum alsoincludes a method used for generating random car wash options as customer ”choices.”The Car class is used to represent a car object throughout the program.  Each car hasan assigned CarWashOption and a integer variable representing the time left for the wash.When a new car is added to the queue, it is given a type of wash and the timeRemainingvariable is set to the time needed to complete that certain type of wash.The CarWash class is where almost all of the logic for the program is contained.  Theclass contains all of the methods specified in the spec:  a CarWash() constructor, run(), andprintData() methods, as well as several helper methods: checkNewCar(), manageBays(), andmanageLine().  Several instance variables are also used to keep track of data for that specificCarWash.  The line of cars waiting to be washed is represented using an ArrayDeque〈Car〉of  type  Queue〈Car〉,  and  the  wash  bays  are  represented  using  an  ArrayList〈Car〉. The constructor  accepts  an  integer  parameter  representing  the  number  of  bays  that  car  washhas.  The printData() method prints out all of the data accrued during the simulation suchas:   time  steps  run,  number  of  bays,  car  arrival  probability,  max  line  length,  number  ofcars left in the line, number of cars washed, and total revenue earned.  The helper methodcheckNewCar() simply determines if a new car has arrived to the wash during that time stepand adjusts the carsInLine variable accordingly.  The manageBays() method decrements thetimeRemaining variable for each Car that is being washed.  When a Car’s timeRemainingvariable reaches zero, the carsWashed variable is incremented to indicate another car finishinga wash and the the ArrayList〈Car〉element holding the finished car is nulled out to indicateits availability.  The manageLine() method looks for available bays and then adds cars outof the queue to empty bays if there are cars in the queue.  manageLine() also keeps track ofrevenue earned and decrements the carsInLine variable when cars leave the queue.  The waythis simulation is modeled, payment is received once the car leaves the queue and enters awash bay. 
The  CarWashManager  class  houses  the  main  method  which  simply  creates  several  in-stances of differently sized CarWash objects and runs them using different simulation timesand car arrival probabilities, printing out the data accrued at the end of the simulation.
